# La Suite Menshen: the Token Exchange server.


> [!WARNING]
> We are bootstrapping this project. Nothing is really usable in a production
> context at this time.

## Local Development (for contributors)

Run Menshen locally for development and testing.

> [!WARNING]
> This setup is intended **for development and testing only**.

### Prerequisites

- Docker
- Docker Compose
- GNU Make
- Curl
- [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) (for the client)

If you plan to work on the Helm chart, you should also be able to run a local
Kubernetes cluster. This requires extra dependencies:

- `mkcert`
- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/fr/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/)
- [Kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/)
- [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install)
- [Helmfile](https://github.com/helmfile/helmfile)
- [Tilt](https://tilt.dev/)

Verify installation:

```bash
docker -v
docker compose version
```

> If you encounter permission errors, you may need to use `sudo`, or add your
> user to the `docker` group.

### Bootstrap the project

The easiest way to start is using GNU Make:

```bash
make bootstrap
```

This builds the Menshen and playground containers, installs dependencies, runs
database migrations, and creates demo fixtures and Menshen's super user.

It is recommended to run this command after pulling new code.

Start services:

```bash
make run
```

As Menshen is a headless API server, once up only the admin console is
available at: <http://localhost:8071/admin>

Default credentials (development only):

```md
username: admin
password: admin 
```
### Django admin

To access the Django administration console, you should create a superuser
first using:

```bash
make superuser
```

> If you have setup the project locally using the `make bootstrap` command,
> trying to create a new super user should fail as it already exists.

### Tests & Linting

```bash
make test
make lint
```

### Working on the Helm chart

If you plan to work on the Helm chart, please consider installing optional
dependencies first (see _Prerequisites_ sub-section). Once ready, you can
bootstrap a local Kubernetes cluster using the following command:

```bash
make build-k8s-cluster
```

This rule will run a script that creates CA for "127.0.0.1.nip.io" sub-domains
and builds a local Kubernetes cluster using Kind.

Once it's done (and your cluster is up), you can start working using Tilt:

```bash
make k8s-dev  # or "tilt up"
```

This will initialize and check the helmfile (and related resources), build
Docker images to publish them to the local registry, and apply the Helm chart
and its dependencies to the local Kubernetes cluster (in the `menshen`
namespace).

If you update the helmfile, the service Docker image, backend sources or any
Chart resource, Tilt will synchronize everything with your runnings pods and
configurations.

Happy coding!

### Playground: a demo for Menshen

Menshen's repository offers a playground that can be used for demonstration
purpose and serves as an example integration for source and target services
using an authorization server to share their resources.

If you have already run the `make bootstrap` command, demo fixtures should
already have been created to use the playground. If not, you can create basic
demo fixtures using the eponym command:

```bash
make demo
```
You can start the playground using the dedicated command:

```bash
make run-playground
```

This should fire up two new services:

- `playground-source` available at: <http://source.localhost:8072>
- `playground-target` available at: <http://target.localhost:8073>

You can login from the source or target services using the "login" button in
the page header. Once clicked, you should be redirected to the Keycloak service
that is used as the identity provider for our development environment. The test
user credentials are:

```md
username: menshen
password: menshen
```

Once connected, you should be redirected to the original service.

> If you click the login button of the second service, due to our silent login
> configuration, you will not be prompted again for your credentials and will
> be automatically redirected to this second service and logged in.

In this playground scenario, the source service (a meeting recording service)
will use the target service (a drive) as a backup for its recordings. When
starting both services, once logged in, the target service should be empty (no
files stored for your account), and multiple recordings should pre-exist in the
source service.

If you click the "Backup" button from the source service main view, a success
flash message should appear on top of the page, and a new file should have been
created and is now listed in the target service.

Behind the scene, the source service uses the target service resource server
API to backup recordings using an exchanged token generated by Menshen 😎

#### Hacking with the playground

If you intend to improve or adapt the playground, we invite you to activate
docker compose watch-mode using:

```sh
make watch
```

This will copy modified service sources and restart it automatically. It will
also rebuild the service container if you update dependencies or the service's
Dockerfile.

### More Make targets

To check all available Make rules:

```bash
make help
```


## License 📝

This work is released under the MIT License (see
[LICENSE](https://github.com/suitenumerique/menshen/blob/main/LICENSE)).

While this project is a public-driven initiative, our license choice is an
invitation for private sector actors to use, sell and contribute to it.
